In a packet-switched network, connectionless mode transmission is a transmission in which each packet is prepended with a header containing a destination address sufficient to permit the independent delivery of the packet without the aid of additional instructions.
A packet transmitted in a connectionless mode is frequently called a datagram.
An advantage of connectionless mode over connection-oriented mode is that it has a low data overhead. It also allows for multicast and broadcast operations, which may save even more network resources when the same data needs to be transmitted to several recipients. In contrast, a connection is always unicast (point-to-point).
Unfortunately, in connectionless mode transmission of a packet, the service provider usually cannot guarantee that there will be no loss, error insertion, misdelivery, duplication, or out-of-sequence delivery of the packet. (However, the risk of these hazards may be reduced by providing a reliable transmission service at a higher protocol layer of the OSI Reference Model.)
connection-oriented describes a means of transmitting data in which the devices at the end points use a preliminary protocol to establish an end-to-end connection before any data is sent, and in which data is sent over the same path during the communication. Connection-oriented protocol service are often but not always "reliable" network service, that provides guarantees that data will arrive in the proper sequence.
Circuit mode communication, for example the public telephone network, ISDN and SONET/SDH, are examples of connection-oriented communication.
Packet mode communication may also be connection-oriented, and is called virtual circuit mode communication. A connection-oriented packet switched protocol does not have to provide each packet with routing information (complete source and destination address), but only with a channel/data stream number, often denoted virtual circuit identifier (VCI). Routing information may be provided to the network nodes during the connection establishment phase, where the VCI is defined in tables in each node.

